---
title: Walking into traffic
date: 2013-03-08 09:00 -07:00
tags: traffic spy
---
data goes in, data goes out, you can’t explain that!

READMORE

<BLOCKQUOTE><H5>13 hour days are not a rare occurence here at g-school.</H5> My partner and I spent a full two weeks on the 'Traffic Spy' application, which received a payload of 'mock' user data, analyzed it, and put it out onto a local server run through 'sinatra', a mini web framework that mimkcks larger scaled frameworks such as Rails. It was a daunting task, and for the first few days no code was written, just an attempt to get a mental grasp on the vague project outline. I am happy I had such a patient partner, Chelsea, who really tried including me in every part of the process. While my tangiable problem-solving-through-code skills are not refined, I definitely feel I did contribute to the project. Could she have done it without me... Maybe. but nonetheless, it was an <U>incredibly</U> stressful, but solid learning experience. part of what I think is difficult for me is that ts hard to try and grasp these new technologies in such a short amout of time, when I know that I might not use them again. I keep hearing about how Rails and Active record automate a lot of our grunt work, so it is important to learn the actual prcesses behind them. However when I struggle with the basics, its daunting knowing well be moving on up to new technologies soon enough. Teaching gSchool must be like trying to teach a group of students who are at the levels from Kindergarten to Seniors in the knowledge levels. Can't bore the smart kids, but ceratinly can't wait for the slow ones either.  



<BLOCKQUOTE><H5>OBAMA for America</H5> These software guys were badass. The team who <U>basically</U> won the 2012 election through innovative software techniques came and gave a talk at Galvanize. It was a nice refresher from a hectic week of beating my head against a keyboard to hear about true world change that came about with the aid of brilliant software. Its cool to think that most software developers are down-to-earth people, working at the highest levels of the world stage, and are still able to rock-out with their ear gauges, neon sunglasses, and hermit beards. Truly cool stuff to listen to these guys and their experiences running one of the most intense software development project of all time that changed history.


<BLOCKQUOTE><H5>gSchool is the hardest mental challenge I have ever taken</H5><U>Bill O’Reilly ~ "data goes in, data goes out, you can’t explain that!"</U> As for my comfortability with databases, I now understand the fundamentals of how databases work... To some extent. The SQL, Sequel, SQLITE, Postgress, chain of command honestly confused the shit out of me. I get how they ar sequential to understanding the big database picture, but once again, I was overwheled by constant switch of syntax and the new code being mixed into the already hazy blocks of Ruby. I heard through the grapevine that there will be some good 'basic review' for theose who are not feeling strong next week. For once I hope that the rumors are true. I feel that the next project might really step it up and implement a group of 4 that will really divy things up. I hope for the sake of my team that I can find a niche in the work to really contribute to. All-in-all, g-school is kicking my ass. Some days I question wtf I am doing here, and other days I come back down to reality and realize that what we are doing here is truly awesome, and I get excited about being able to learn with such a motivated smart group of people. 